Before getting into the research,
I'd like to go over a few hands-on examples that will help you
understand some of the core principles behind blockchain security.
For example, how could a vulnerability come
from coding decisions that seem pretty normal?
How might somebody identify these vulnerabilities?
Once it's found, how would someone exploit that error?
Finally, what could have been done to avoid this from ever happening?
To do that, we'll get hands-on and code up a smart contract for ourselves.
We'll take on the role of the hacker to exploit that contract.
We'll finish up by making the changes that could
have prevented the vulnerability from ever happening.
In this section, we'll explore that type of
vulnerability by looking at what is known as the DAO attack.
This is a famous hack that happened on the Ethereum network,
that resulted in the loss of about $60 million worth of Ether.
To get started, let's head over to Remix and build up the code for the original contract.
I left a code snippet under the video that you
can use to start off with before we start coding.
Basically, the purpose of this contract was to operate like a venture capital fund,
allowing users to donate towards ideas
that they felt passionate about and wanted to support.
This is similar to something like Kickstarter but the DAO was hoping that the benefits of
the blockchain would reduce the amount of fees that
were needed to be taken by the owners of the website.
We'll need to build out a few lines of code,
but basically you can already see that our contract is meant to do two things.
For one, it allows users to contribute
any amount of Ether towards a campaign that they'd like.
Second, it allows them to withdraw the amount of money they
contributed in case they no longer want to support that campaign.
Knowing that, let's build out the function that allows users to withdraw their coins.
First, the user will need to be able to
withdraw the amount of coins that they had contributed.
To do that, we'll set the withdrawal amount to the balance of the message sender.
We can do that because down here on the contribute function,
we continue to increment the amount that has been contributed by each user.
So, here, we're just referencing that total.
Next, we'll need to reference the wallet we'll be sending Ether back to.
We can do that with this line.
Next, we'll reference payout then send
the total number of tokens that they've contributed back to the user.
That can be done like this.
The final thing we'll want to do is set the balance of this user to zero.
Since their funds have been returned,
they should no longer be a balance available to them.
Okay, so this all makes sense right now,
and it seems pretty simple.
You check how much they've contributed,
send it back and set their balanced to zero.
The question now is,
how did code like this result in the loss of millions of dollars?
Before moving on, we'll take a quick break to see if you can spot the vulnerability.
To help you out, I also put the framework for the wallet
that this contract would be interacting with down below the video.
It doesn't have the lines of code that exploit the weakness
yet but it helps you understand how these two contracts would interact.
If you're really not sure, that's fine.
This is one of those problems that's really quick to spot if you know the answer,
and pretty tough to see for the first time.
So, take some time to think about it.
When you're ready, we'll go over the answer in the next video.